# Platform Specific Changes

Given that TeX runs on a number of platforms, there are a number of settings
that need to be tweaked in order to make TeXStyle work well on all of them. If
the instructions in this document are followed, the command
`\usepackage{texstyle}` should work in all projects on that machine (except for
the browser based case).

## Contents

1. [Browser based](#browser-based)
1. [Windows](#windows)
1. [Linux/*BSD](#linux/*bsd)
1. [Mac](#mac)

## Browser based

Browser based TeX editors rely on a web browser to edit the TeX source and use a
server to compile the source into a document. As such, they are somewhat limited
when it comes to installing packages.

One method that is guaranteed of making a package visible to the compiler is
placing it in the project root folder. The compiler will definitely see the
package on compilation and should run without any trouble. The downside of this
is that the file will not be visible to any other projects and this will have to
be repeated for each project you intend to use `texstyle` with.

That being said, your platform of choice may have varying restrictions and
freedoms on what can and cannot be done. Before you attempt to use anything,
read the documentation your platform provides on installing packages.

## Windows

Windows users using TeXStudio are probably using [MiKTeX](https://miktex.org/)
as a back-end. If you know this isn't the case and you're using
[TeXLive](https://www.tug.org/texlive/) or something else entirely, it is
probably best to look at the [Linux/*BSD](#linux/*bsd) instructions and try and
follow from there.

Those who are using MiKTeX should read up on the `texmf` folder and what it's
used for. A good start is [this SE
thread](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/420620/what-is-texmf-and-what-is-its-relation-to-tex/420623)
(don't worry about the fact that it's for Linux, this applies to most TeX
distributions).

Once you've understood that,
[this](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/69483/create-a-local-texmf-tree-in-miktex#69484)
thread should tell you how to create a local tree.

In your local `texmf` tree place `texstyle.sty` and the class files you want in
an appropriate subdirectory.</br> MiKTeX downloads packages on request, so when
using TeXStyle for the first time you may have to download a number of them at
once.

## Linux/*BSD

A default install of TeXLive generates a `~/texmf` directory which should be
used to install local packages. Read [the
thread](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/420620/what-is-texmf-and-what-is-its-relation-to-tex/420623)
mentioned earlier and place `texstyle.sty` and whichever class files you want in
an appropriate subdirectory. As of `0.0.5`, the install target should do this
automatically if `TEXMFLOCAL` is set appropriately.

To my knowledge TeXStyle doesn't depend on any packages not included in a
standard TeXLive install. If there are indeed packages that need to be
installed, please let me know as soon as possible so I can either list them or
find a workaround for them.

## Mac

MacTeX is effectively a repackaged TeXLive. Thus, the installation instructions
shouldn't be too different from those for Linux.
